chore: [1.10] Add Solana ALTs docs (#583)
chainflip-io/chainflip-docs: pages/swapping/integrations/advanced/cross-chain-messaging/sol-ccm.mdx

## Transaction length limitation

> A Solana transaction is limited to 1232 bytes. That includes all instructions, accounts, data, signatures etc... From the remaining bytes, some are used for the asset transfer and CPI call to the receiver program and. The rest are left for the message and the accounts list in a CCM swap. Therefore, the message and the accounts list are limited and depends on the egress asset.

Reviewer: Something missing here?

```suggestion
A Solana transaction is limited to 1232 bytes. That includes all instructions, accounts, data, signatures etc... From the remaining bytes, some are used for the asset transfer and CPI call to the receiver program and [..?]. The rest are left for the message and the accounts list in a CCM swap. Therefore, the message and the accounts list are limited and depends on the egress asset.
```

Also, what depends on the egress asset? The limit? Could be clearer...

Something like this: "The number bytes available for encoding the message and the list of accounts is dependent on the egress asset."? Is this accurate?

```rust
const MAX_USER_CCM_BYTES_SOL  = 814;
const MAX_USER_CCM_BYTES_USDC = 725;
```

Chainflip supports Versioned Transactions and allows the user to pass a list of Address Lookup Tables (ALT) to be used in the transaction to minimize the transaction length. This might be necessary if trying to execute complex logic that requires many accounts on Solana.

### Without Address Lookup Tables

Each account takes 32 bytes in the transaction plus one per reference in the instruction.

```typescript copy
number_of_accounts * 33 + message_length <= MAX_USER_CCM_BYTES_*
```

If that condition is not met, the opening of a deposit channel and the encoding of a Vault Swap will fail.

### Using Address Lookup Tables

> Only the ALT addresses are past by the user, not it's content. The protocol will fetch the content of the ALT and add it to the transaction appropriately.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Only the ALT addresses are passed by the user, not their content. The protocol will fetch the content of the ALTs and add it to the transaction appropriately.
```

> The ALTs don't need to be controlled by the user and can be other protocol's ALT, such as Jupiter's. The only limitation is that they must not be deactivated nor in the cool-down period preceeding its deactivation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ALTs don't need to be controlled by the user and can be another protocol's ALTs, such as Jupiter's. The only limitation is that an ALT must not be deactivated nor in the cool-down period preceeding its deactivation.
```

The number of lookup tables that can be passed by the user is currently limited to 3. Each lookup table requires 34 bytes. Then each account referenced in the transaction that is in the lookup table will only take 1 byte.

```typescript copy
number_of_alts * 34 + number_of_accounts_in_alt * 1 + number_of_accounts_not_in_alt * 33 + message_length <= MAX_USER_CCM_BYTES_*
```

> Chainflip can't know in advanced the content of an ALT and therefore can't exactly check whether this length condition is met at the time of opening a deposit channel or encoding a Vault swap. However, if at the time of building the transaction the condition is not met, Chainflip will send the funds with a normal transfer to the fallback address.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Chainflip can't know in advance the content of an ALT and therefore can't exactly check whether this length condition is met at the time of opening a deposit channel or encoding a Vault swap. However, if at the time of building the transaction the condition is not met, Chainflip will send the funds with a normal transfer to the fallback address.
```

I'm a bit confused about why we can't verify the length condition. Doesn't the user need to specify all of the above when they open a channel with an ALT payload? (alt accounts, alt indices, other accounts, remaining message)

Author: They only specify the accounts they want, not their indexes. We fetch the ALT data and then encode the transaction matching the user's addresses with the ALT content. Even if they were to specify the indexes we could not ensure a correct length since we'd still not be able to know whether the ALT actually contains that data or not.
Fwiw, this is the most fool-proof and convenient way to do it for integrators given how Solana's DEXes works.
